As part of the signs of the time of the end, Jesus said that there would be food shortages and earthquakes in one place after another.
But He said, all these things are just the beginning of the pangs of distress.
Now as proof of Jesus sign on March the 15th, that was a Friday, Cyclone died down tons of water in an area spanning from Zimbabwe, Malawi and through to Mozambique.
Now as a branch, we were asked to give relief supplies aid to Mozambique.
And so we'd like to provide a report of what has been accomplished so far and at the same time just share the response of some of the businessmen that we have dealt with.
The area that was affected to a very large extent for Mozambique was Byra.
Now this map, we can see a view, a picture here, shows how much water was left behind in Byra and the inland regions creating ocean-like bodies of water.
Now many had to be rescued and they still being rescued from trees and small outcrops of land.
There they tried to obtain some refuge from the water.
Now it's estimated that as many as 10,000 of our brothers and sisters have been affected due to approximately 90% of the buildings being destroyed.
There's an urgent need for shelter and the Mozambique branch has already sent a small quantity of tents to begin the relief effort.
So Africa branch began providing support with relief supplies just over a week ago.
The two locations that we are supplying to are Shamoya to the west and Byra, which is the fourth largest city of Mozambique.
So our support began on Sunday March the 17 when satellite phones were purchased and sent to Byra to allow the branch in Mozambique to have direct contact with the brothers.
Then on Monday March the 18th we began compiling a shopping list of items and of course this was all under the direction of the disaster relief desk, the branch committee of Mozambique and the coordinators committee.
So we began sourcing items for urgent shipment to these two locations.
Now what was included? Well there were 253 tents in Topolins, Lifejackets, 103,000 packs of biscuits, 1,000 and 5 cases of bottled water, 40 tons of millimeal, 200 pots, 2,000 mosquito nets,
40,000 tons of fish, hundreds of miscellaneous safety equipment, hundreds of miscellaneous cooking and cleaning utensils and of course medication and other equipment as well.
Now buyers from the purchasing department went and visited supplies and bought up as much of their stock as we could.
The first truckload left on Thursday morning, March the 21st to Chamoya despite that actually being a public holiday.
Then during the course of Thursday buyers managed to secure stocks of items and then between shipping, purchasing, transportation, brothers and sisters collected these all over Johannesburg and Pretoria.
Now when buyers travel to suppliers and shop managers explaining what we were doing, they actually went out of their way to assist us.
For example, when a buyer visited one store and explained to one of the key staff that what we were doing is to assist our fellow worshipers in devastated areas, he was moved to become our personal shopper.
Anything we wanted, he checked his stock, he even loaded this onto trolleys for us, he got four of his staff to help us through checkout, they loaded it onto trolleys and this personal shopper assisted loading this onto buckets.
Then the manager came out and he agreed to give us a discount of 9%.
Now when a buyer contacted a supply to purchase water purification kits, he agreed to meet us at his premise on the public holiday and to give us the stock we needed, even though we had no dealings with him previously, he agreed that we could take the items and pay later.
So Thursday evening there was a lot of activity here, all these items were received in, they were wrapped, they were prepared for sending and on Friday morning the next full truckload left for Shamoa.
Now when we updated the branch in Mozambique on Thursday evening with photographs and the progress of the buying, packing and shipping of these supplies, one brother from the purchasing department responded,
thank you so much, you brothers are making me cry, only Jehovah's people can do this, we love all of you, thank you.
Now due to all road access to buyer being closed, we needed to send items by air, at first the quotation given by the airline was extremely high, so we appealed to them and asked them to consider lowering their charge to support the relief effort.
And to our amazement, the airline reduced the cost by 75%. And we were told that if we could get items to them within an hour, they would start including this on the flight leaving the same day.
Well, even though our items arrived 30 minutes late after the flight was scheduled as closed, the airline pleaded with a pilot and we were able to get some items onto that flight as well.
Then on Friday morning, a second truck was dispatched to Chenuea, a third truck was packed in preparation for sending on Monday morning, and addition to this the second air freight of much needed food and water was sent on Saturday morning.
This week, a load of medical equipment, blankets and medication will be sent to both locations, and further truckloads of food and emergency items will be sent by truck as they become available for shipping.
But we want to thank the family for their interest, their care, their prayers in behalf of our most in big brothers and sisters.
We also appreciate the support of the shipping, export, transportation, accounting, food services and purchasing departments.
Yes, in working shoulder to shoulder, responding quickly and effectively to meet this need.
Many of you worked well into the night and over the weekend.
The spirit shown by everyone is well described in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verses 3 and 4.
There we read 2 Corinthians 8.
For it was according to their means, yes, I testify, it was even beyond their means, while they on their own initiative kept earnestly begging us for the privilege of kindly giving to have a share in the Reef Ministry of the Holy Ones.
Brothers, we do not know the full impact of the destruction that was caused.
That is yet to be established. Much work still lies ahead.
So thank you all for the excellent fine work done, and may we all continue to keep these brothers in our prayers, as well as our brothers in Zimbabwe and Malawi.
Yes, as these brothers are assisted through this horrific disaster.